welcome to the second therapy Thursday's
I'm Peter Kissel today we're with the
head strength coach from SST
inside the baseball zone boots to
everybody talking about a condition that
affects any overhead athlete
particularly pitchers that being girder
legal humeral internal rotation deficit
so pictures it up pain in the back of
their shoulders this is a good blog for
you
we just laid boots down Kurt is a fancy
term to say that pitchers get more
external rotation in their arc of motion
and a limited internal rotation so a
difference of about twenty degrees of
increased external rotation and
decreased internal rotation is known to
be pathologic or causes pain so we're
going to talk about a very recent study
that showed a particular stretch that
helped with this condition condition
that affects the soft tissue in the back
side of the shoulder
the sleeper stretch is affecting the
backside soft issues of your shoulder
because they're known to become very
very tight and contracted and actually
enlarged in pitchers because it's
responsible for slowing the arm down
through the fall through so with this
stretch it's important that you keep
your shoulder blade underneath you not
allowing it to come too far forward you
actually want to rotate the person back
about 45 degrees
keep their elbow up at 90 degrees and
they're gonna slowly try to bring their
arm down towards the ground now in this
study that I'm referencing they had
symptomatic people with GERD hold this
stretch three times per day for 30
seconds and showed a dramatic
improvement in a space underneath their
shoulder that's known to cause
impingement sentiments which is an opah
Thal D that can I found if they can
occur with with pitchers so this is a
very important stretch to do a second
stretch is equally as important if boots
just lays on his back there was a second
study done a few years ago that compared
these two stretches for the posterior
capsule and it found that the crossover
stretch so just holding your shoulder
down and pulling straight across was
more effective for the back side of your
shoulder to us at the Brock of athlete
it doesn't really matter it's two
separate studies we just give both both
stretches to every pitcher because both
have been shown to be good in research
so for pitchers that have any pain in
the back side of your shoulder try those
two stretches three times per day for 30
seconds and it should show some
improvement